.\" $Id: ald.8,v 1.1.1.1 2004/04/26 00:39:49 pa33 Exp $
.TH ald 8 "17 February 2004" ""

.SH NAME

ald \- Assembly Language Debugger

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B ald
.RB "[\|" \-v "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-h "\|]"
.RB "[\|" filename "\|]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

  The Assembly Language Debugger allows breakpoint debugging at the
assembly level. It provides a means to examine and/or change a
program's memory during execution and stop the execution of a
program for specified conditions.  There is also a built in
disassembler which allows you to view the program's executable
code in human-readable form.

  ALD reads commands interactively after it has been invoked.
Every command is documented completely in the help system, which
can be accessed via the
.B help
command. The most common commands used during the process of debugging
are as follows:

.B break \fIaddress
.RS
Sets a breakpoint at \fIaddress
.RE

.B r \fR[\fIarguments\fR]
.RS
Begin execution of program using [\fIarguments\fR]
.RE

.B c
.RS
Continue execution of program (after it stopped due to a signal, breakpoint, etc)
.RE

.B n \fR[\fInum\fR]
.RS
Step [\fInum\fR] instructions, stepping over any subroutines
.RE

.B s \fR[\fInum\fR]
.RS
Step [\fInum\fR] instructions, stepping into any subroutines
.RE

.B d \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
.RS
Disassemble machine opcodes (see \fBhelp dissassemble \fR for more information)
.RE

.B help \fR[\fIcommands\fR]
.RS
Give detailed help, in general or for specified commands
.RE

.B quit
.RS
Exit ALD
.RE

.SH OPTIONS

  The following are command line options which may be passed to ald when it is
invoked.

.RS
[\fB\-v\fR] - Output version information.

[\fB\-h\fR] - Output help information.

[\fBfilename\fR] - Name of file to be loaded for debugging.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Patrick Alken <pa59@cornell.edu>
